Changelog 2026-04-21.adoc (#237)
vshn/appcat-user-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/changelog/2026-04-21.adoc

== PostgreSQL CloudNativePG Self Service Restore

The last missing feature on our list was self service restore for PostgreSQL. It is finally here and with it a fully matured PostgreSQL with CloudNativePG service. Test the restore yourself by following the https://docs.appcat.ch/vshn-managed/postgresql/restore.html#_cloudnativepg[CloudNativePG Restore] guide.

Now is also a good time to start planning your migration from Stackgress to CloudNativePG. Just reach out to us and we will help you. 

== PostgreSQL CloudNativePG for Nextcloud

Since we are already on the CloudNativePG topic, we have set CloudNativePG PosgreSQL as the default database for Nextcloud.
This does not affect existing instances. When provisioning a new Nextcloud instance, you can still point to an already existing PostgreSQL. 
Let us know when you are ready and we will help you migrate everythging.

== Garage Bucket Cleanup

We identified that the Garage Operator refuses to delete buckets that are flagged for deletion, but still contain data. This is not ideal, since the object buckets keep consuming disk space.

> Therefore, we have introduced garage cleanup, that will delete all objects within a bucket if the bucket has been in a deleting state for 6 days. 

Reviewer: > if the bucket has been in a deleting state for 6 days. 

that part has been moved to a followup as we found that it's not handled consistently across the various bucket implementations.

> Therefore, we have introduced garage cleanup, that will delete all objects within a bucket if the bucket has been in a deleting state for 6 days. 

Author: ```suggestion
Therefore, we have introduced garage cleanup, that will delete all objects within a bucket if the bucket has been in a deleting state for a defined time period. 
```

Author: this sounds better @Kidswiss ?

Reviewer: I'd probably scratch that last part completely. They get deleted immediately right now.

Author: ok

> Therefore, we have introduced garage cleanup, that will delete all objects within a bucket if the bucket has been in a deleting state for 6 days. 

Author: ```suggestion
Therefore, we have introduced garage cleanup, that will delete all objects within a bucket if the bucket has been in a deleting state. 
```
